[NUI][TCSACR-409] Add guide for NUI Palette API (#1461)
Samsung/tizen-docs: docs/application/dotnet/guides/nui/Palette.md

# Palette

The palette APIs is a support that extracts prominent colors from images to help you create visually engaging apps.

You can use the palette APIs to design layout themes and apply custom colors to visual elements in your app.
For example, you can use a palette to create a color-coordinated title card for a song based on its album cover or to adjust an app’s toolbar color when its background image changes.
The Palette object gives you access to the colors in a Bitmap image while also providing six main color profiles from the bitmap to help inform your design choices.

## Add namespace

> To implement Palette, include `Tizen.NUI` namespace in your application:

Reviewer: Please give a line space between 9-10

```csharp
using Tizen.NUI;
```

> ## Create a palette

Author: done

> Generate a Palette instance using PixelBuffer method to first create a PixelBuffer from a Image.

Author: I mean 
Generate a Palette instance using the 'ImageLoading' class  to first create a 'PixelBuffer' from an Image.

> 1. Create PixelBuffer from source image:

Author: done

    ```csharp
    PixelBuffer imgBitmap = ImageLoading.LoadImageFromFile(imagePath);   
    ```

> then generate the palette either synchronously or asynchronously.

Author: done

    {
        PixelBuffer imgBitmap = ImageLoading.LoadImageFromFile(_imgPath);
        try
        {
            Palette palette = Palette.Generate(imgBitmap);
        }
        catch (ArgumentNullException e)
        {
            //Exception Handling.
        }
    }
    
    // Generate a Palette asynchronously
    public async Task PaletteGenerateAsync()
    {
        PixelBuffer imgBitmap = ImageLoading.LoadImageFromFile(_imgPath);
        try
        {
            Palette palette = await Palette.GenerateAsync(imgBitmap);
        }
        catch (ArgumentNullException e)
        {
            //Exception Handling.
        }
    }
    ```
 
 3. Set a region of the pixelBuffer to be used exclusively when calculating the palette. (Optional)
 
    ```csharp
    Rectangle rect = new Rectangle(0, 0, 100, 100);
    ...
    Palette palette = Palette.Generate(imgBitmap, rect);
    ```

## Extract color profiles

Colors extracted from the bitmap image are scored against each profile based on saturation, luminance, and population (number of pixels in the bitmap represented by the color).
For each profile, the color with the best score defines that color profile for the given image.

> Palette object contains 16 primary colors from a given image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Colors extracted from the bitmap image are scored against each profile based on saturation, luminance, and population (number of pixels in the bitmap represented by the color). For each profile, the color with the best score defines that color profile for the given image. Palette object contains 16 primary colors from a given image.

> The palette library attempts to extract the following six color profiles:

Reviewer: Doubt ? Attempts to extract or it extracts colors? 

Is this fine? check whether it is technically fine. 

The palette library extracts the following six color profiles:

Author: Yes.

Attempts to create 6 color profiles, and if no matching color is extracted from the image, it will not be created.

So I used the expression to attempt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Palette library attempts to extract the following six color profiles:

- Light Vibrant
- Vibrant
- Dark Vibrant
- Light Muted
- Muted

> - Dark Muted

Reviewer: Please check, I have made the second word start with a small letter, if capital is necessary then please ignore the comment.
```suggestion
- Light vibrant
- Vibrant
- Dark vibrant
- Light muted
- Muted
- Dark muted

Author: done

Each of Palette’s get<Profile>Color() methods returns the color in the palette associated with that particular profile,
where <Profile> is replaced by the name of one of the six color profiles.
For example, the method to get the Dark Vibrant color profile is getDarkVibrantColor().

> Since not all images will contain all color profiles, you must also provide a default color to return.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of the Palettes `get<Profile>Color()` returns the color in the Palette associated with that particular profile, where <Profile> is replaced by the name of one of the six color profiles. For example, the method to get the Dark Vibrant color profile is `getDarkVibrantColor()`. Not all images contain all color profiles, you must also provide a default color to return:

Author: done

![Palette](./media/Palette.png)
    

> To access all colors in a palette, the getSwatches() method returns a list of all swatches generated from an image, including the standard six color profiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access all colors in a Palette, the `getSwatches()` returns a list of all swatches generated from an image, including the standard six color profiles.

Author: done

    

## Use swatches to create color schemes

The Palette class also generates Palette.Swatch objects for each color profile.
Palette.Swatch objects contain the associated color for that profile, as well as the color’s population in pixels.

Swatches have additional methods for accessing more information about the color profile, such as HSL values and pixel population.

> You can use swatches to help create more comprehensive color schemes and app themes using the getBodyTextColor() and getTitleTextColor() methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Palette class also generates `Palette.Swatch` objects for each color profile. The `Palette.Swatch` objects contain the associated color for that profile as well as the color’s population in pixels. Swatches have additional methods for accessing more information about the color profile, such as HSL values and pixel population. You can use swatches to create more comprehensive color schemes and app themes using the `getBodyTextColor()` and `getTitleTextColor()`.

Author: done

> These methods return colors appropriate for use over the swatch’s color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following methods return colors that are appropriate for use over the swatch’s color:

> Each of Palette’s get<Profile>Swatch() methods returns the swatch associated with that particular profile, where <Profile> is replaced by the name of one of the six color profiles.
> Although the palette’s get<Profile>Swatch() methods do not require default value parameters, they return null if that particular profile does not exist in the image.
> Therefore, you should check that a swatch is not null before using it. For example, the following code gets the title text color from a palette if the Vibrant swatch is not null

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each of Palettes `get<Profile>Swatch()` returns the swatch associated with that particular profile, where <Profile> is replaced by the name of one of the six color profiles.
- The palettes `get<Profile>Swatch()` does not require default value parameters, the method returns null if a particular profile does not exist in the image. Therefore, you should check that a swatch is not null before using it. For example, the following code gets the title text color from a palette, if the vibrant swatch is not null. 
```

Code seems to be missing, the last line talks about the following code. Please verify.

# Palette

> The palette APIs is a support that selecting colors from images to help you create visually engaging apps.

Author: Thank you.

> You can use the Palette APIs to design layout themes and apply custom colors to visual elements in your app. For example, you can use a palette to create a color-coordinated title card for a song based on its album cover or to adjust an apps toolbar color when its background image changes. The Palette object gives you access to the colors in a bitmap image, while also providing six main color profiles from the bitmap to help your design choices.

Author: done

> You can use the Palette APIs to design layout themes and apply custom colors to visual elements in your application. For example, you can use a Palette to create a color-coordinated title card for a song based on its album cover or to adjust an apps toolbar color when its background image changes. The Palette object gives you access to the colors in a bitmap image, while also providing six main color profiles from the bitmap to help your design choices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the Palette APIs to design layout themes and apply custom colors to visual elements in your application. For example, you can use a Palette to create a color-coordinated title card for a song based on its album cover or to adjust an app's toolbar color when its background image changes. The Palette object gives you access to the colors in a bitmap image, while also providing six main color profiles from the bitmap to help your design choices.
```

Author: done

Author: done

## Add namespace

To implement Palette, include `Tizen.NUI` namespace in your application:

```csharp
using Tizen.NUI;
```

## Create Palette

> Generate a Palette instance using the 'ImageLoading' to first create a 'PixelBuffer' from an Image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generate a Palette instance using the `ImageLoading` to first create a `PixelBuffer` from an image.

Author: done

> Generate a Palette instance using the `ImageLoading` to first create a `PixelBuffer` from an Image.

Reviewer 2: Change Image to image

```suggestion
Generate a Palette instance using the `ImageLoading` to first create a `PixelBuffer` from an image.
```

Author: done

> 1. Create 'PixelBuffer' from source image:

Author: done

    ```csharp
    PixelBuffer imgBitmap = ImageLoading.LoadImageFromFile(imagePath);   
    ```

>    - You can generate the Palette either synchronously or asynchronously.

Reviewer 2: @mijin85cho this bullet list does not seem well aligned in staging.
We could also remove this line as the same info is repeated in next step.

2. Generate a Palette synchronously or asynchronously:
    ```csharp
    // Generate a Palette synchronously
    public void PaletteGeneratesync()
    {
        PixelBuffer imgBitmap = ImageLoading.LoadImageFromFile(_imgPath);
        try
        {
            Palette palette = Palette.Generate(imgBitmap);
        }
        catch (ArgumentNullException e)
        {
            //Exception Handling.
        }
    }
    
    // Generate a Palette asynchronously
    public async Task PaletteGenerateAsync()
    {
        PixelBuffer imgBitmap = ImageLoading.LoadImageFromFile(_imgPath);
        try
        {
            Palette palette = await Palette.GenerateAsync(imgBitmap);
        }
        catch (ArgumentNullException e)
        {
            //Exception Handling.
        }
    }
    ```

>  3. Set a region of the pixelBuffer to be used exclusively when calculating the palette. This is optional:

Author: done

>  3. Set a region of the pixelBuffer to be used exclusively when calculating the Palette. This is optional:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 3. Set a region of the `PixelBuffer` to be used exclusively when calculating the Palette. This is optional:
```

Author: done

    ```csharp
    Rectangle rect = new Rectangle(0, 0, 100, 100);
    ...
    Palette palette = Palette.Generate(imgBitmap, rect);
    ```

## Extract color profiles

Colors extracted from the bitmap image are scored against each profile based on saturation, luminance, and population (number of pixels in the bitmap represented by the color). For each profile, the color with the best score defines that color profile for the given image. Palette object contains 16 primary colors from a given image.

The palette library attempts to extract the following six color profiles:

- Light vibrant
- Vibrant
- Dark vibrant
- Light muted
- Muted
- Dark muted

Each of the Palettes `get<Profile>Color()` returns the color in the Palette associated with that particular profile, where <Profile> is replaced by the name of one of the six color profiles. For example, the method to get the Dark Vibrant color profile is `getDarkVibrantColor()`. Not all images contain all color profiles, you must also provide a default color to return:

![Palette](./media/Palette.png)

> To access all colors in a Palette, the 'getSwatches()' returns a list of all swatches generated from an image, including the standard six color profiles.

Author: done

## Use swatches to create color schemes

> The Palette class also generates `Palette.Swatch` objects for each color profile. The `Palette.Swatch` objects contain the associated color for that profile as well as the color¡¯s population in pixels. Swatches have additional methods for accessing more information about the color profile, such as HSL values and pixel population. You can use swatches to create more comprehensive color schemes and app themes using the `getBodyTextColor()` and `getTitleTextColor()`.

Author: Thank you i changed like below that sentence.

The `Palette.Swatch` objects contain the associated color for that profile as well as the population of colors in pixels.

The following methods return colors that are appropriate for use over the swatch’s color:

- Each of Palettes `get<Profile>Swatch()` returns the swatch associated with that particular profile, where <Profile> is replaced by the name of one of the six color profiles.

> - The Palettes `get<Profile>Swatch()` does not require default value parameters, the method returns null if a particular profile does not exist in the image. Therefore, you should check that a swatch is not null before using it. For example, the following code gets the title text color from a Palette, if the vibrant swatch is not null.

Author: done

> - The Palettes `get<Profile>Swatch()` does not require default value parameters, the method returns null if a particular profile does not exist in the image. Therefore, you must ensure that a swatch is not null before using it. For example, the following code gets the title text color from a Palette, if the vibrant swatch is not null.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The Palettes `get<Profile>Swatch()` does not require default value parameters, the method returns null if a particular profile does not exist in the image. Therefore, you must ensure that a swatch is not null before using it. For example, the following code gets the title text color from a Palette, if the vibrant swatch is not null:
```

Author: done

Author: done.

  ```csharp
  var mutedSwatch = palette.GetMutedSwatch();
  TextLabel label = new TextLabel(txt)
  {
      TextColor = mutedSwatch.GetBodyTextColor(),
      ...
  };
  ```
## Related information
- Dependencies

>   -   Tizen 6.5 and Higher

Reviewer 2: If this API is for Tizen 6.5, kindly raise the PR to tizen_6.5_prepare branch. All 6.5 APIs are raised in 6.5 specific branch

Author: yes thank you
